- 👋 Hi, I’m Ian A. Silver
- 👀 Ian A. Silver PhD is a Quantitative and Public Health Criminologist in the Center for Legal Systems Research at Research Triangle Institute with an expertise on public health issues related to Youth Justice, Corrections, and Pretrial. Dr. Silver is a highly published applied statistician and public health researcher with 7 years of experience in executing experimental and quasi-experimental research, statistical modeling, and data visualization. He specializes in translating complex data into actionable insights for stakeholders across health, policy, and criminal justice sectors (see Adolescent Health Policy Briefs and Criminal Justice Policy Briefs). Dr. Silver has mentored and taught students and staff members for 5 years, teaching them the process of executing large research projects (e.g., the National Pretrial Reporting Project), publishing academic research and practitioner focused research, and conducting statistical analyses.

-Dr. Silver is an expert in the application of statistics for policy and health related research, employing machine learning (random forests and neural networks), biostatistics, Bayesian statistics, longitudinal data analysis, predictive modeling, and causal inference techniques (propensity score weighting, difference-in-difference, and regression discontinuity design) to answer various research questions. He also possesses expertise in working with administrative data across the United States from various government agencies and private companies, in addition to an expertise in data collection procedures, survey development, and survey administration. Overall, Dr. Silver’s expertise in research and statistics has allowed him to conduct policy focused research across disciplines, with a focus on health policy, public policy, criminal justice, and social policy. He is also highly published in academic journals, with over 70 articles appearing in prestigious outlets including JAMA Network Open.

-Regarding statistics, his research interests include applied statistics, biostatistics, and the application of advanced statistical techniques to answer research questions in criminal justice, health policy, and psychology. At the forefront, Ian is interested in developing, evaluating, and demonstrating statistical applications and techniques through the use of various data sources and data simulations. Ian’s data simulations have been used in various publications, as well as his open source projects: the Sources of Statistical Bias Series, the Misidentification of Structural Associations Series, and the Simulating Data Series. 
- 📫 You can reach me at isilver@rti.org

<!---
ianasilver/ianasilver is a ✨ special ✨ repository because its `README.md` (this file) appears on your GitHub profile.
You can click the Preview link to take a look at your changes.
--->
